 Cognizant
User Name
  17530609       ---------        p6?Xiq@e
p6?Xiq@e

JAVA, J2EE, SPRING BOOT , MICROSERVICES, DESIGN PATTERNS, MYSQL, APACHE KAFKA, 
REDIS, ELASTICSEARCH, LIQUIBASE, MAVEN, GITHUB, JUNIT5, MOCKITO, LOG4J

https://www.linkedin.com/in/tech-pritam91
Software Engineer II (Java Developer)
Backend Java Developer 3
Served notice, available immediately

Understand functional requirements, translate them into code, and ensure code optimization and timely delivery
Sound knowledge of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) Patterns and Concepts.
Hands-on knowledge of build tools like Maven, Gradle.


Basic understanding of front-end technologies and platforms, such as JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3

Responsibilities:

Design, develop, and deploy high-quality, scalable, and maintainable Java applications
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to gather and define requirements
Participate in all phases of the software development life cycle, including planning, design, coding, testing, and deployment
Develop front-end applications using modern JavaScript frameworks like Angular/React
Implement back-end solutions using Java frameworks such as Spring or Hibernate , JPA.
Create and maintain database structures, optimizing performance and ensuring data integrity.
Perform code reviews, identify and fix defects, and improve overall code quality.
Stay updated with industry trends and emerging technologies to continuously enhance your skills and knowledge


Strong hands-on experience with Java (8 or above).
Expertise in Spring Boot and Spring Cloud for developing scalable, maintainable applications.
Proficiency in Java unit testing frameworks like JUnit, Mockito.
Solid understanding of relational databases (MySQL, PostgreSQL, or MS SQL).
Experience in building and consuming RESTful APIs.
Experience with implementation of Data structure and algorithms
Good understanding of data structures & algorithms and their space & time complexities.
Thorough understanding of Software Development Lifecycle and methodologies
✅ Expertise in streaming data architectures and real-time processing
✅ Solid knowledge of Kafka, REST APIs, and event-driven systems
✅ Experience building scalable and resilient distributed systems
Strong experience in JAVA, Spring boot, Microservices, SQL
Experience on System Design & Distributed systems Architecture
Hands-on Coding Experience Using Data Structures and Algorithms, Design Patterns and on Cloud Applications

 3-5+ years of hands on experience in Java/J2EE development. Experience with the implementation of a distributed, enterprise JAVA/J2EE solution is strongly preferred
 Experience in JAVA/J2EE Frameworks such as Spring, hibernate is strongly preferred

Career growth
400710

15,00,000
9,50,000



How would you best describe your ideal work environment?

Collaborative and supportive – I enjoy working in a team-focused environment where communication, mentorship, and shared success are valued.

Independent and flexible – I prefer having autonomy in my work, with the ability to manage my own schedule and tasks.

Structured and process-driven – I do best in an organized environment with clear guidelines, expectations, and procedures.

High-energy and fast-moving – I thrive in a workplace that is dynamic, innovative, and constantly evolving with new challenges.

How do you handle deadlines and pressure?

I thrive under pressure and always meet deadlines, no matter the cost.

I manage pressure well and usually meet deadlines with effective time management.

I handle pressure alright, but would prefer not to have urgent deadlines.

I'd rather work at my own pace, in a less stressful environment.

How do you communicate when you encounter a blocker that affects your work?

I inform my team about the blocker only if it significantly delays my work.

I try to resolve the blocker on my own before seeking help if necessary.

I immediately inform my team and seek assistance to resolve the issue.

How do you handle situations where you have too many tasks to complete on your own?

I work extra hours to try and complete all tasks on time.

I focus on the most urgent tasks.

I seek help from my team to redistribute the workload.

I inform my supervisor or team leader and ask for advice.

How much are you willing to work when things are urgent?

I'm willing to work long hours, including nights and weekends as necessary.

I'm willing to work extra hours occasionally, but prefer to keep a work-life balance.

I can work extra hours if given advance notice, but prefer to avoid nights and weekends.

I prefer to stick to regular working hours, even when things are urgent.

















- Expertise in core Java, XXX, data structures, and multithreading.

3.8+ years of experience in software development, with expertise in Java and Spring Boot.
4+ years of experience in Java Backend Development, Restful API, Spring Boot, Microservices, and MySQL.
Strong understanding of Data Structures, Algorithms, Multithreading, Collections, and Design Patterns.
Expertise in MySQL (SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Schema Design).
Proficient in Apache Kafka for real-time data streaming and event-driven architecture.
Experienced with Quartz Scheduler for building and managing scheduled, recurring tasks and automating backend workflows.
Experience in JUnit and Mockito for unit testing.
Experience in ORM frameworks such as Hibernate/JPA.
Rich experience with Apache Maven as build and deployment tool.



Proficient in Apache Kafka for real-time data streaming and Quartz Scheduler for job scheduling and automation.

Java Backend Development
Restful API
Springboot
Microservices
Designs Patterns and Data Structures.

Perform root cause analysis and implement preventative solutions to minimize recurring issues.
Strong understanding of Software development life cycles, including design, development, testing and deployment.
Develop and optimize database schemas, queries, and stored procedures for MSSQL.

Proficiency in frontend technologies including React.js, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.

Design, develop, and maintain scalable and high-performance applications using Java and Spring Boot.
Implement microservices architecture to enhance application modularity and scalability.
Collaborate with product managers, architects, and other stakeholders to gather requirements and translate them into technical specifications.
Conduct code reviews and ensure code quality through unit testing and best practices.
Troubleshoot and resolve software defects and performance issues.
Participate in the full software development lifecycle, including requirements analysis, design, development, testing, deployment, and support.
Stay updated with the latest industry trends and technologies to continuously improve application performance and user experience.

Strong proficiency in Java . Hands-on experience with Spring Boot
Good understanding of microservices architecture .
- Collaborate with cross-functional teams to analyze business requirements and design software solutions that meet business process and application requirements.
- Participate in code reviews, ensuring that code is well-designed, maintainable, and scalable.
- Troubleshoot and debug software issues, identifying and resolving defects in a timely manner.



I’ve updated my profile. If there’s anything still pending from my side, please let me know—I’ll make sure to update it as soon as possible.
Key Responsibilities
1. Design and Development: Design, develop, and deploy scalable microservices using Java and Spring Boot.
2. Microservices Architecture: Participate in the design and implementation of microservices architecture, ensuring scalability, reliability, and performance.
3. API Development: Develop RESTful APIs, ensuring security, scalability, and performance.
4. Cloud Native Development: Develop cloud-native applications, leveraging cloud services and containerization (Docker, Kubernetes).
5. Troubleshooting: Troubleshoot and resolve complex technical issues in microservices-based systems.


Technical Skills
1. Java: Strong proficiency in Java programming language.
2. Spring Boot: Experience with Spring Boot framework for building microservices.
3. Microservices Architecture: Knowledge of microservices architecture patterns and best practices.
4. Cloud Platforms: Experience with cloud platforms (AWS, GCP, Azure).
5. Containerization: Knowledge of containerization technologies (Docker, Kubernetes).


Key Responsibilities:

Develop and maintain scalable backend applications using Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, and Hibernate.
Design and implement RESTful APIs and microservices architecture.
Write optimized SQL queries and manage data in Oracle Database.
Collaborate with front-end developers, QA engineers, and other stakeholders to deliver high-quality software.
Troubleshoot and debug issues in production and non-production environments.
Ensure code quality, security, and performance through best practices and code reviews.
Proficiency in Oracle Database, including writing complex queries, procedures, and performance tuning.
Help troubleshoot database issues under the guidance of senior DBAs.
Work and collaborate in multi-disciplinary Agile teams, adopting Agile spirit, methodology and tools
Working knowledge of unit testing.
Working knowledge of object-oriented software design.



Experience in Java development with Spring Boot and CI/CD pipeline
Design, develop, test, deploy, and maintain Java applications using microservices architecture
4+ years of experience in Java/J2EE, Springboot, and Microservices
Develop and maintain Java Springboot Microservices
Experience with Java8, Spring Boot, and Microservices
Develop and maintain Java applications using Spring Boot and Microservices architecture


Mandatory Skills : Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, Data Structures, Algorithms, Design Patterns, OOP, and Multithreading.
- Exposure to building and consuming RESTful APIs and working with microservices architecture.

Data Structures & Algorithms: Practical knowledge of data structures and algorithms for performance optimization.
 

Multithreading & Concurrency: Solid understanding of multithreading concepts and the ability to implement them to enhance application performance.

Design, develop, and maintain robust backend services using Java and Spring Boot.
Implement microservices architecture with Spring Cloud for distributed systems.
Write unit and integration tests to ensure code quality and coverage.
Work with SQL databases such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, or MS SQL for data modeling, querying, and performance tuning.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to gather requirements and deliver high-quality solutions.
Participate in code reviews, contribute to architectural decisions, and drive best practices.

Proficient in Java and familiar with its ecosystems (Spring, Hibernate).
Experience with software development methodologies and tools such as Agile, Scrum, Git, JIRA, and Confluence. 
Lead the design and implementation of distributed platforms using Spring Boot and Microservices.

1 to 3 years of hands-on professional experience working with cutting-edge technologies in enterprise applications.
Design Patterns and Principles,
Facilitate root cause analysis of the system issues and problem statement
3+ years of hands-on experience in Java with Spring & Spring Boot, RESTful Web Services, and Microservices Architecture
Develop and maintain enterprise applications, ensuring code integrity and responsiveness, and collaborate with the engineering team to launch new features



Collaborate with business analysts and other stakeholders to understand requirements and translate them into technical solutions.
Implement unit testing and ensure code quality through best practices.
Troubleshoot and resolve issues in development and production environments.
Support system deployments and conduct post-implementation reviews.

Strong proficiency in Java development with a minimum of 6+ years of experience.
bullet icon
Solid understanding of unit testing frameworks and best practices.
Ability to write efficient SQL queries and understand database structures.
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills with experience in debugging and troubleshooting.
Excellent communication skills and ability to work in a collaborative team environment.
Deep understanding of database systems, with expertise in PL/SQL, including stored procedures and complex SQL joins.
- Strong understanding of Java, J2EE, and related frameworks (Spring, Hibernate, etc.).

Experience in Kubernetes operators, Grafana, Prometheus
Solid understanding of relational database concepts and experience using MySQL (or similar)
Expertise in application development using Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, web services standards and related technologies ( JSON, REST)
debugging, and root cause analysis
Knowledge and working experience in Agile Methodologies
Core Java, Java8+, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Design patterns. Microservices, RESTful API, oAUTH2, JPA, Logging
- Logical/Analytical skills. Thorough understanding of OOPS concepts, Design principles and implementation of different type of Design patterns.



- Integrate with messaging systems like Kafka for event-driven architecture
- Implement distributed systems patterns using Netflix OSS/Spring Cloud
- Develop robust backend services using Java, Spring Boot, and Microservices
- Develop and maintain scalable Java applications using Spring Boot and Microservices architecture.
- Troubleshoot and resolve application issues in development and production environments.
- Work in an Agile/Scrum development environment and meet delivery timelines
- Effective skills in writing quality, re-usable, scalable, and test-supported code.
Work closely with cross-functional teams to integrate new features and enhance existing functionalities.
• Understanding of software development lifecycle and Agile methodologies.
• Strong proficiency in Java and Java frameworks such as Spring and Hibernate.
strong knowledge of Spring framework and microservices architecture
Design, develop, and maintain scalable Java applications; 
implement microservices architecture; 
develop RESTful APIs; 
optimize application performance

Write, test, and optimize complex PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for efficient data retrieval.
Create and manage database designs, including joins, relationships, and stored procedures.
Collaborate with the front-end team to integrate user-facing elements with server-side logic.
Optimize database performance by implementing efficient SQL queries and indexing.
Design, develop, and manage the complete lifecycle of software development, from concept to deployment.
Troubleshoot and resolve software defects, and proactively implement fixes and enhancements.

Design, develop, test, and deploy high-quality Java applications, adhering to best practices and coding standards.
Apply SOLID principles and design patterns to ensure maintainability, scalability, and performance of software solutions.
Extensive experience with ReactJS, React Testing Library, Redux, JavaScript(ES6+), HTML5 and CSS3 its core principles.

    HashMap<String, Object> result = employeeList.stream().collect( 
              Collectors.teeing(
                  Collectors.filtering(e -> e.getSalary() > 200, Collectors.toList()),
                  Collectors.filtering(e -> e.getSalary() > 200, Collectors.counting()),
                  (list, count) -> {
                    HashMap<String, Object> map = new HashMap();
                    map.put("list", list);
                    map.put("count", count);
                    return map;
                  }
              ));
			  
			   BigDecimal totalPrice = cartRows.stream()
                                       .collect(Collectors.reducing(
                                           BigDecimal.ZERO,           // Identity value (initial sum)
                                           CartRow::getRowPrice,      // Function to extract price from CartRow
                                           BigDecimal::add            // Accumulator to add the prices
                                       ));

12+ Years of Hands-on Software development experience. 6 + years in Software and microservices architecture.
• be responsible for the analysis, design, development and delivery of software solutions.

• write code to build and enhance applications/services and promote code-reviews, secure code, whilst adhering to standards 
and best practices resulting in the deliver high-quality artifacts through to production.

All About You:
• Excellent communication skills with the ability to communicate with all levels of management.
• Hands on experience in building complex and highly scalable and performing systems
• Solid understanding and hands-on experience in Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, and RESTful web services.
• Solid understanding and experience integrating web services
• Exposure to building cloud ready applications (microservices)

Integrate third-party APIs and services.



	

Application for Java Developer Position - Pritam Hippargekar.	
Dear Hiring Manager,
I am excited to apply for the Java Developer position at [continual engine]. 
With 3.8 years of extensive experience in all phases of software development life cycle.
I am eager to contribute my expertise in Java technologies and agile methodologies to drive innovative solutions at [continual engine].

In my previous role at Viral Technologies Pvt. Ltd, I gained hands-on experience in backend development, 
Utilizing Java, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Hibernate/JPA and Design Patterns to design and implementations of 
a microservices architecture. I successfully collaborated with cross-functional teams to deliver high-quality software solutions on time. 
Additionally, I consistently demonstrated strong troubleshooting skills and a deep understanding of system architecture to improve application performance and scalability.

I am confident that I have the skills and experience that you are looking for in a Java Developer. 
I would welcome the opportunity to discuss how my skills and experience align with your team’s needs and how I can contribute to your projects.

Please find attached my resume for your further review of my skills and work history.
Thank you for considering my application. I look forward to the possibility of contributing to your esteemed team.

Best regards,
Pritam Hippargekar,
(Mobile) 8806298290
(Email) tech.pritam91@gmail.com
(LinkedIn) https://www.linkedin.com/in/tech-pritam91




Experience with the Agile methodology, contributing to sprint planning, reviews, and retrospectives.
Strong experience with Java, Spring Boot, and microservices architecture.

Knowledge of Agile methodologies and tools (e. g., Jira).


Strong proficiency in Java, Micro services, Spring boot, Spring Framework, RESTful APIs, Hibernate.
Ability to quickly learn new technologies and apply them as and when needed

Strong problem-solving and analytical skills, with a passion for tackling complex technical challenges.
Strong ability to effectively manage databases including schema design, queries, and optimizations.
Solid understanding of software design patterns, architectural design patterns and best practices.
Solid understanding of data structures, algorithms, and software design principles.

Strong understanding of elasticsearch engine, for indexes mapping, data modelling, and extracting documents through querying.
Strong expertise in Elasticsearch, including index mapping, data modeling, and querying for efficient document retrieval and analysis.


Skill for writing reusable Java libraries
Knowhow of Java concurrency patterns

- Proven experience as a Java Developer with a focus on Microservices.

- Design, develop, and maintain Java-based applications and microservices.
- Participate in agile development cycles and contribute to sprint planning, standups, and retrospectives.
- Implement server-side logic in Java using Java-based framework Spring Boot
-
- Write clean, maintainable, and efficient code following best practices and design patterns.
- Develop and integrate APIs, ensuring smooth and secure data exchanges.
- Strong proficiency in J2EE, Spring Boot, and Microservices architecture.
scalable, secure, and high-quality software
Contribute to all stages of software development lifecycle
Proficiency in Java, with a good understanding of its ecosystems
- Experience in working with version control systems, such as Git.
Implement microservices architecture using Spring Boot.
The ideal candidate will have strong knowledge of Java, Spring Boot, Kafka, and modern software design principles.
Utilize Kafka for building event-driven microservices.

Hands on experience in Quartz Scheduler framework.

Fluent Interface, Template Method , Strategy


Develop robust and scalable Java applications using Java 8+ and the Spring Framework (Spring MVC, Spring Boot).
Design, develop, and maintain high-performance Java applications, ensuring robust and scalable solutions.
Stay informed about emerging technologies and techniques, encouraging innovation and continuous improvement.

Collaborate with business analysts to understand requirements and translate them into technical specifications.
to understand business requirements and translate them into efficient and scalable software solutions.
design, develop, test, deploy, support and maintain high-quality software applications using industry best practices and modern technologies.
own issues, including initial troubleshooting, identification of root cause and issue resolution / escalation.

write clean and maintainable code that adheres to industry coding standards and contributes to the overall stability of our systems.
participate in code reviews and provide constructive feedback to team members to ensure code quality and promote knowledge sharing.






















    @MultiField(
      mainField = @Field(type = FieldType.Keyword),
      otherFields = {
          @InnerField(type = FieldType.Text, suffix = "ngrams", analyzer = "ik_max_word", searchAnalyzer = "ik_smart")
      })
    private String fullName;
    @Field(type = FieldType.Keyword)
    private List<String> urls;
    @Field(type = FieldType.Boolean)
    private Boolean isVisible;

    @Field(type = FieldType.Text,analyzer = "ik_max_word", searchAnalyzer = "ik_smart", fielddata = true, store = false)
    private String userName;
    @Field(type = FieldType.Double)
    private Double price;
	@Field(type = FieldType.Keyword)
    private String category;
    @Field(type = FieldType.Date, store = true, format = DateFormat.custom, pattern ="yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss")
    @JsonFormat(shape = JsonFormat.Shape.STRING, pattern ="yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss", timezone = "GMT+8")
    private Date birthday;
	
@Document(indexName = "#{@environment.getProperty('app.es-indexes.witake-media')}", writeTypeHint = WriteTypeHint.FALSE, createIndex = false)	
https://moldstud.com/articles/p-understanding-nested-and-object-data-structures-in-elasticsearch
{
  'mappings': {
    'properties': {
      'user': {
        'type': 'object',
        'properties': {
          'name': {
            'type': 'text'
          },
          'age': {
            'type': 'integer'
          }
        }
      },
      'comments': {
        'type': 'nested',
        'properties': {
          'commenter': {
            'type': 'text'
          },
          'message': {
            'type': 'text'
          },
          'date': {
            'type': 'date'
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}